feat(curriculum): add fruit search useEffect workshop (#59544)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/workshop-fruit-search-app/68140ab94fd0ea19c62ca87e.md

</html>
```

```css
body {
  font-family: Arial, sans-serif;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  height: 100vh;
  background-color: #f4f4f4;
}

#search-container {
  text-align: center;
  background: white;
  padding: 20px;
  border-radius: 10px;
  box-shadow: 0 0 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
}

#search-input {
  padding: 10px;
  width: 80%;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  border-radius: 5px;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}

#results {
  text-align: left;
  max-height: 150px;
  overflow-y: auto;
}
.result-item {
  padding: 5px;
  border-bottom: 1px solid #ddd;
}
```

```jsx
const { useState, useEffect } = React;

export function FruitsSearch() {
  const [query, setQuery] = useState('');
  const [results, setResults] = useState([]);

  function handleSubmit(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
  }

  useEffect(() => {
    if (query.trim() === '') {
      setResults([]);
      return;
    }
--fcc-editable-region--
    const timeoutId = setTimeout(async () => {
      try {
        const response = await fetch(`https://fruit-search.freecodecamp.rocks/api/fruits?q=${query}`);
        const data = await response.json();
        setResults(data.map(fruit => fruit.name));

>       } catch {}

Reviewer: This should fix the failing CI 

```suggestion
      } catch (error) {
        console.error("Error fetching data:", error);
      }
```

---
id: 68140ab94fd0ea19c62ca87e
title: Step 21
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-21
---

# --description--

> At the end of the `useEffect`, return a cleanup function that clears the timeout using `clearTimeout(timeoutId)`. This prevents multiple delayed fetches from stacking up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below your `timeoutId` variable, return a cleanup function that clears the timeout using `clearTimeout(timeoutId)`. This prevents multiple delayed fetches from stacking up. Make sure your cleanup function is an arrow function.

Now try out your fruit search app by typing in the name of a fruit like `apple` or `pear` to see the results appear.

And with that your Fruit Search app is complete!
```

# --hints--

> You should return `clearTimeout(timeoutId)` at the end of the `useEffect`.

Reviewer 2: the current wording makes it seem like I need to return this 

```js
return clearTimeout(timeoutId)
```

it should be clear that you are looking for an arrow function that returns that

  <script
    data-plugins="transform-modules-umd"
    type="text/babel"
    data-presets="react"
    data-type="module"
  >
    import { FruitsSearch } from './index.jsx';
    ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root')).render(<FruitsSearch />);
  </script>
</body>
</html>
```

```css
body {
  font-family: Arial, sans-serif;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
  height: 100vh;
  background-color: #f4f4f4;
}

#search-container {
  text-align: center;
  background: white;
  padding: 20px;
  border-radius: 10px;
  box-shadow: 0 0 10px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
}

#search-input {
  padding: 10px;
  width: 80%;
  border: 1px solid #ccc;
  border-radius: 5px;
  margin-bottom: 10px;
}

#results {
  text-align: left;
  max-height: 150px;
  overflow-y: auto;
}
.result-item {
  padding: 5px;
  border-bottom: 1px solid #ddd;
}
```

```jsx
const { useState, useEffect } = React;

export function FruitsSearch() {
  const [query, setQuery] = useState('');
  const [results, setResults] = useState([]);

  function handleSubmit(e) {
    e.preventDefault();
  }

  useEffect(() => {
    if (query.trim() === '') {
      setResults([]);
      return;
    }

> --fcc-editable-region--

Reviewer 2: should add a space so camper know where to write the code 

```js
--fcc-editable-region--
    const timeoutId = setTimeout(async () => {
      try {
        const response = await fetch(`https://fruit-search.freecodecamp.rocks/api/fruits?q=${query}`);
        const data = await response.json();
        setResults(data.map(fruit => fruit.name));
      } catch (error) {
        console.error("Error fetching data:", error);
      }
    }, 700);

  }, [query]);
--fcc-editable-region--
```

---
id: 68140ab94fd0ea19c62ca87e
title: Step 21
challengeType: 0
dashedName: step-21
---

# --description--

> Below your `timeoutId` variable, return a cleanup function that clears the timeout using `clearTimeout(timeoutId)`. This prevents multiple delayed fetches from stacking up. Make sure your cleanup function is an arrow function.

Reviewer 3: My code didn't pass that I think should:

```
    return () => {
      clearTimeout(timeoutId);
    }
```

We could mention to use an implicit return - or adjust the test to allow various syntax.
